# Systemd

- Systemd is a system and service manager for Linux operating systems.
- A service is a program that runs in the background.

## Creating a Service

- To create a service, we need to create a `.service` file in the `/etc/systemd/system/` directory.
- The `.service` file contains the configuration of the service.

```bash
[Unit]
# The Unit section contains metadata and dependencies
Description=My Service
# A description of the service
Documentation=https://example.com
# A URL for documentation
After=postgresql.service
# Specifies that the service should start after the PostgreSQL service

[Service]
# The Service section contains the service configuration
ExecStart=/bin/bash /usr/bin/myscript.sh
# The command to start the service
User=serviceaccount
# The user under which the service should run
Restart=on-failure
# Configures the service to restart on failure
RestartSec=10
# The delay before restarting the service

[Install]
# The Install section contains installation information
WantedBy=graphical.target
# Specifies the target that the service should be started in
```

- `systemctl start servicename`: Start a service.
- `systemctl status servicename`: Check the status of a service.
- `systemctl stop servicename`: Stop a service.

## Systemd tools

- `systemctl`: Control the systemd system and service manager.
  - Manage system state
  - Start/stop services
  - Enable/disable services
  - List and manage units
  - List and update targets
- `journalctl`: Query and display messages from the journal. Logs.

- `systemctl start servicename`: Start a service.
- `systemctl stop servicename`: Stop a service.
- `systemctl restart servicename`: Restart a service.
- `systemctl reload servicename`: Reload the configuration of a service.
- `systemctl enable servicename`: Enable a service to start on boot.
- `systemctl disable servicename`: Disable a service from starting on boot.
- `systemctl status servicename`: Check the status of a service.
  - States: `active` (running), `inactive` (not running), `failed` (crashed, error, timeout).
- `systemctl daemon-reload`: Reload the systemd manager configuration.
- `systemctl edit servicename --full`: Edit the service configuration.
  - `--full`: Edit the full configuration.
- `systemctl get-default`: Get the default target.
- `systemctl set-default targetname`: Set the default target.
  - Ex: `systemctl set-default multi-user.target`
- `systemctl list-units --all`: List all units. Units are services, sockets, devices, etc.

  - Without `--all`: List active units.

- `journalctl`: Query and display messages from the journal.
- `journalctl -b`: Show the logs from the last boot.
- `journalctl -u servicename`: Show the logs of a service.
