# DNS

- Domain Name System, is a system that translates domain names to IP addresses.
- `ip a` - To check the IP address of the system
- `ping IP` - To check if the IP is reachable
- `hostname` - To check the hostname of the system
- `cat >> /etc/hosts` - To add a new entry to the host file. It is used to map IP addresses to domain names.
  - It works well for small networks, but not for large networks.
  - Ex: `192.168.0.11 dbserver`. Now `ping dbserver` will ping the IP address `192.168.0.11`
  - We can also add multiple entries to the host file, including repeated entries for the same IP address.
- So, we need a system that can resolve domain names to IP addresses for large networks. This is where DNS comes into play.
- `cat /etc/resolv.conf` - To check the DNS server IP address
  - DNS: name server, search domain
- First, the system checks the host file for the IP address. If it is not found, it checks the DNS server.
  - `cat /etc/nsswitch.conf` - To check the order of resolution. It is `files dns` by default.
- `8.8.8.8` is a public DNS server provided by Google. You can use it as a backup DNS server.
- `nslookup google.com` - To check the IP address of the domain name. But it doesn't consider the host file.
- `dig google.com` - To check the IP address of the domain name, if details.

## Domain names

- Domain names are divided into levels, separated by dots.
- The top-level domain is the last part of the domain name. Types: `.com`, `.org`, `.net`, `.edu`, `.gov`, `.mil`, `.int`
- Ex: `www.google.com`
  - `.` is the root domain
  - `com` is the top-level domain
  - `google` is the second-level domain
  - `www`, `mail`, `apps` are the third-level domain (subdomain)
- To speed up the resolution process, we use a cache. The cache stores the IP address of the domain name for a certain period of time.
- Inside a company, we can assign subdomains to different departments. Ex: `hr.company.com`, `finance.company.com`, `sales.company.com`
  - Into the local network, we can use only the domain name without the top-level domain. Ex: `hr`, `finance`, `sales`.
  - But, to access the internet, we need to use the full domain name. Ex: `hr.company.com`, `finance.company.com`, `sales.company.com`
- If I add `search company.com` to the `resolv.conf` file, I can access the local network without the top-level domain. Ex: `hr`, `finance`, `sales`.
  - So `ping hr` will ping `hr.company.com`

## Record types

- `A` record: Maps a domain name to an IP address. Ex: `www.google.com` to `IPV4`
- `AAAA` record: Maps a domain name to an IP address. Ex: `www.google.com` to `IPV6`
- `CNAME` record: Maps an alias to a canonical name. Ex: `www` to `google.com`
