# Installation

- Pre-requisite: `kubectl` and kubernetes cluster.
- `curl -s "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/master/hack/install_kustomize.sh" | bash`
  - This will download the latest version of kustomize and install it in the `/usr/local/bin` directory, silently (`-s`).
- `kustomize version --short` to verify the installation.

## kustomization.yaml

- The file that specifies the base and overlay files.

```yaml
# k8s resources to be managed by kustomize
resources:
  - nginx-deployment.yaml
  - nginx-service.yaml

# customizations that need to be made
commonLabels:
  company: mycompany
```

- `kustomize build .` to build the resources.
  - It will read the `kustomization.yaml` file and apply the customizations to the resources.
  - The output will be the final resources that will be applied to the cluster.
  - It will not apply the resources to the cluster, just show the output.
  - `kustomize build . | kubectl apply -f -` to apply the resources to the cluster.
    - The `-f -` flag is used to read the resources from the standard input.

## Kustomize Output

- `kubectl apply -k .` to apply the resources using kustomize to the cluster.
  - The `-k` flag is used to apply the resources using kustomize.
- `kustomize build . | kubectl delete -f -` to delete the resources from the cluster.
  - The `-f -` flag is used to read the resources from the standard input.
- `kubectl delete -k .` to delete the resources using kustomize from the cluster.
  - The `-k` flag is used to delete the resources using kustomize.

## Kustomize apiVersion and kind

- Although they are not required, it is a good practice to add the `apiVersion` and `kind` to the `kustomization.yaml` file.
  - This will help to identify the file as a kustomization file.
