# Configuration
- **nginx.conf**: The main configuration file for Nginx, typically located at `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`. It defines the global settings, server blocks, and location directives.
- Structure:
  - **Global Context**: Contains settings that apply to the entire Nginx instance, such as user privileges, worker processes, rate limiting and error log settings.
  - **Events Context**: Configures how Nginx handles connections, including worker connections and event model.
  - **HTTP Context**: Defines HTTP-specific settings, including server blocks, location blocks, and various modules for handling requests.
  - **Server Blocks**: The most important part of the configuration, defining how Nginx should respond to requests for specific domains or IP addresses.
    - Each server block can specify settings like listening ports, server names, and SSL configurations.
    - It can also include location blocks to handle specific URIs or paths within the server.
    - Server blocks can be nested within the HTTP context and can include directives for handling static files, proxying requests, and more.
- **Location Blocks**: Used within server blocks to define how requests for specific URIs should be handled, allowing for fine-grained control over request processing.
- Ex:
```shell
# Global settings
user: www-data # User and group under which Nginx runs. www-data is a common user for web servers debian/ubuntu. Other distributions may use different users, like nginx for CentOS/RHEL.
worker_processes: auto # Automatically set the number of worker processes based on available CPU cores.
pid: /var/run/nginx.pid # Path to the PID file for the master process.

# Events settings
events {
    worker_connections: 1024 # Maximum number of simultaneous connections each worker process can handle. We need to multiply this by the number of worker processes to get the total number of connections Nginx can handle. On 4 CPU cores, this would be 4 * 1024 = 4096 connections.
    use kqueue; # Use kqueue event notification mechanism (specific to FreeBSD and macOS).
    # For Linux, you might use `use epoll;` or leave it out to use the default.
}

# HTTP settings
http {
    include: /etc/nginx/mime.types
    default_type: application/octet-stream
    sendfile: on
    keepalive_timeout: 65

    include: /etc/nginx/conf.d/*.conf;
    default_type: application/json;
}

# Server block example
server {
    listen: 80; # Port on which the server listens for incoming requests. Can be 80 for HTTP or 443 for HTTPS. Or 8080 for alternative HTTP port.
    server_name: example.com; # Domain name for which this server block is responsible. Can be multiple domains separated by spaces.

    location / {
        root: /var/www/html; # Document root where the website files are located. This is the directory that contains the index.html file and other static assets.
        index: index.html index.htm; # Default files to serve when a directory is requested. Nginx will look for these files in the specified root directory.
    }

    location / {
        try_files $uri $uri/ =404; # Try to serve the requested file or directory, and return a 404 error if not found. This is useful for static content.
    }
}
```

## Virtual Hosts
- Nginx supports virtual hosting, allowing multiple websites to be served from a single server instance.
- Each website can have its own server block, specifying different domain names, document roots, and configurations.
- When a request comes in, Nginx matches the requested domain name to the appropriate server block and serves the corresponding content.

## Modules
- Nginx has a modular architecture, allowing for the addition of various functionalities through modules.
- Modules can be built-in or third-party, providing features like handling different protocols, authentication, caching, and more.
- Commonly used modules include:
  - **HTTP Core Module**: Provides basic HTTP functionality, including request handling and response generation.
  - **HTTP SSL Module**: Enables SSL/TLS support for secure communication over HTTPS.
  - **HTTP Proxy Module**: Allows Nginx to act as a reverse proxy, forwarding requests to backend servers.
  - **HTTP Rewrite Module**: Provides URL rewriting capabilities, allowing for flexible request routing and redirection.
  - **HTTP Gzip Module**: Enables compression of responses to reduce bandwidth usage and improve loading times.
  - **HTTP Cache Module**: Implements caching mechanisms to improve performance and reduce load on backend servers.
  - **HTTP Access Module**: Controls access to resources based on IP addresses, user agents, and other criteria.
- Modules can be enabled or disabled during the Nginx build process, and additional modules can be installed as needed.
- Configuration for modules is typically done within the `http` context or specific server blocks in the `nginx.conf` file.