# Vagrant

- Vagrant is a tool for building and managing virtual machine environments in a single workflow. With an easy-to-use workflow and focus on automation, Vagrant lowers development environment setup time, increases production parity, and makes the "works on my machine" excuse a relic of the past.

## Installation

- Download and install Vagrant from [vagrantup.com](https://www.vagrantup.com/)
- `vagrant --version`: Check the version of Vagrant
- `vagrant init OS`: Initialize a Vagrant environment with the OS
  - Example: `vagrant init centos/7`. It will create a `Vagrantfile` with CentOS 7 as the base image.
  - A `Vagrantfile` is a Ruby file used to configure the Vagrant environment. A Box is a package format for Vagrant environments. It is a single file that contains everything required to run a virtual machine.
- `vagrant up`: Start the VM.
- `vagrant`: show the list of commands.
- `vagrant status`: Check the status of the VM.
- `vagrant ssh`: Connect to the VM using SSH.
- `logout`: Exit from the VM.

## Vagrantfile

```ruby
Vagrant.configure("2") do |config|
  config.vm.box = "centos/7"
  config.vm.network "forwarded_port", guest: 80, host: 8080
  config.vm.synced_folder "../data", "/vagrant_data"
  config.vm.provider "virtualbox" do |vb|
    vb.memory = "1024"
  end
  config.vm.provision "shell", inline: <<-SHELL
    yum update
    yum install -y httpd
  SHELL
end
```

## Vagrant Providers

- Vagrant supports multiple providers such as VirtualBox, VMware, Hyper-V, Docker, etc.

## Demo

- Search for vagrant boxes: [app.vagrantup.com/boxes/search](https://app.vagrantup.com/boxes/search)
- Centos 7: `vagrant init centos/7`
- Start the VM: `vagrant up`
- SSH into the VM: `vagrant ssh`
  - `cat /etc/*release*` > Check the OS version
- Check the status of the VM: `vagrant status`
- Stop the VM: `vagrant halt`
- To update the Vagrantfile, run `vagrant reload`

- We can have timeouts in the Vagrantfile. For example, if the VM is not up in 5 minutes, then it will timeout.
  ```ruby
  config.vm.boot_timeout = 600
  ```
