# Containers Overview

- `Docker` is the base of `Kubernetes` and `Kubernetes` is a container orchestration tool.
- Containers with libs and dependencies are packed into an image.
- Use OS-level virtualization to run multiple isolated systems on a single host.
- Containers are lightweight and share the host OS kernel.
- Different of Hypervisors, they use less resources and are faster to start.
- Docker registry is a place to store images. There are public and private registries.

## Container Orchestration

- Functions:
  - Load balancing
  - Network configuration between containers
  - Scaling
    - Horizontal: Increase the number of containers.
    - Vertical: Increase the resources of a container.
  - Auto deployment
- Options:
  - `Kubernetes`
    - Uses declarative configuration files.
  - `Docker Swarm`
  - `Mesos` < Apache

## K8s Architecture

- **Node**(Minions): A machine that runs containers.
  - **Master Node**: Controls the worker nodes.
    - **API Server**: Frontend for the K8s control plane. Communicates with Kubelet on the nodes.
    - **Scheduler**: Assigns work to nodes. It's responsible for distributing work or containers across multiple nodes.
    - **Controller Manager**: Monitors the cluster. It's the brain of the cluster.
      - Responsible for making decisions to bring up new containers in response to node, container, or endpoint failures.
    - **etcd**: Key-value store for all cluster data. Logs, config, etc.
      - Implement locks to prevent conflicts.
      - Ensures distributed storage of information across the cluster.
  - **Worker Node**: Runs the containers.
    - **Kubelet**: Communicates with the master node. Make sure that the containers are running.
      - Responsible for starting, stopping, and maintaining application containers organized in pods on each node.
    - **Kube Proxy**: Maintains network rules.
    - **Container Runtime**: Runs the containers. Docker, containerd, etc.
- **Cluster**: A set of nodes that run K8s.
- **kubectl**: CLI to interact with the K8s cluster.
  - `kubectl run hello-minikube`: Run a container.
  - `kubectl get nodes`: List the nodes.
  - `kubectl cluster-info`: Info about the cluster.
  - `kubectl get nodes -o wide`: More info about the nodes.
