# Java - Building and Packaging

- Development: `MyClass.java`
- Compilation: `javac MyClass.java` > Intermediary Byte Code
- Run: `java MyClass` > Read Machine Readable Byte Code

## Packaging

- Packaging is to bundle all the `.class` files into a single `.jar` file. Also, it can include other resources like images, properties, etc.
- JAVA Archive (`.jar`) is a compressed file format that includes all the `.class` files and resources.
  - `jar cvf MyJar.jar MyClass.class MyOtherClass.class`
    - `c`: Create
    - `v`: Verbose
    - `f`: File
    - `MyJar.jar`: The name of the `.jar` file.
- WAR (Web Application Archive) and EAR (Enterprise Archive) are other packaging formats.
- META-INF/MANIFEST.MF: Contains metadata about the `.jar` file.
  - Example:
    ```
    Manifest-Version: 1.0
    Created-By: 1.8.0_241 (Private Build)
    Main-Class: MyClass
    ```
- To execute a `.jar` file:
  - `java -jar MyJar.jar`

## Documentation

- `javadoc`: Generates HTML documentation from Java source code.
  - `javadoc MyClass.java`
  - `javadoc -d ./docs MyClass.java`
- The generated documentation is stored in the `./docs` directory.

## Build Tools

- Porpuse: Automate the build process.
- Examples:
  - Apache Ant
  - Apache Maven
  - Gradle
- Ant: XML based build tool.
  - `ant`: Execute the default target.
  - `ant -f build.xml`: Execute the build file.
- Maven: Convention over Configuration.
  - `mvn clean install`: Clean the project and install the dependencies.
  - `mvn package`: Package the project.
  - `mvn site`: Generate the project site.
- Gradle: Groovy based build tool.
  - `gradle build`: Build the project.
  - `gradle test`: Run the tests.
  - `gradle run`: Run the project.
  - `gradle tasks`: List the available tasks.
