# Namespaces

- Namespaces are a way to divide cluster resources between multiple users (via resource quota) or multiple projects (via resource quota).
- They are intended for use in environments with many users spread across multiple teams or projects.
  - They are used to isolate resources and provide a scope for names.
- Base namespaces automatically created by Kubernetes:
  - `default`: The default namespace for objects with no other namespace.
  - `kube-system`: The namespace for objects created by the Kubernetes system.
  - `kube-public`: This namespace is created automatically and is readable by all users (including those not authenticated).
- The resources within a namespace refer to each other by their names.
  - For reaching a resource in another namespace, you need to use the namespace name as well. Ex: `my-service.my-namespace.svc.cluster.local`.
    - This is called a fully qualified domain name (FQDN). It's stored on the DNS server of the cluster.
    - `cluster.local` is the default domain name for Kubernetes.

## Commands

- `kubectl get pods`: only shows pods in the default namespace.
- `kubectl get pods --all-namespaces`: shows pods in all namespaces.
- `kubectl get pods --namespace=<namespace>`: shows pods in a specific namespace.

- `kubectl create -f <file>.yaml`: creates resources in the default namespace.
- `kubectl create -f <file>.yaml --namespace=<namespace>`: creates resources in a specific namespace.

  - To avoid specifying the namespace every time, move the namespace to the file (metadata.namespace).

- `kubectl config set-context $(kubectl config current-context) --namespace=<namespace>`: sets the default namespace for the current context.
  - This way, you don't need to specify the namespace every time you run a command.

## Creating a Namespace

- `kubectl create namespace <namespace>`: creates a namespace.
  - Or use the file `namespace-<namespace>.yaml` with the following content:
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Namespace
    metadata:
      name: <namespace>
    ```
    And run `kubectl create -f namespace-<namespace>.yaml`.

## Creating a ResourceQuota

- `kubectl create -f resourcequota-<namespace>.yaml`: creates a resource quota for a namespace.
  - Example of `resourcequota-<namespace>.yaml`:
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: ResourceQuota
    metadata:
      name: <namespace>-quota
      namespace: <namespace>
    spec:
      hard:
        pods: "10"
        requests.cpu: "4"
        requests.memory: 4Gi
        limits.cpu: "6"
        limits.memory: 6Gi
    ```
    This quota limits the namespace to 10 pods, 4 CPU requests, 4Gi memory requests, 6 CPU limits, and 6Gi memory limits.
