# File Types

- **Regular Files**: These are the files that contain data, text, program, etc. They are the most common type of file in Linux.
  - Images, Scripts, Configuration files, etc.
- **Directories**: These are the files that contain other files and directories.
- **Special Files**:
  - **Character Devices**: These are the files that represent devices that store data in characters, focus on I/O. For example, keyboards, mice, etc.
  - **Block Devices**: These are the files that represent devices that store data in blocks. For example, hard drives, SSDs, etc.
  - **Links**: These are the files that point to another file. There are two types of links:
    - **Hard Links**: These are the files that point to the inode of another file. They share the same inode number.
    - **Symbolic Links (Soft Links)**: These are the files that point to the path of another file. They have a different inode number.
  - **Sockets**: These are the files that are used for inter-process communication. They are used for communication between processes on the same host or different hosts.
  - **FIFOs (Named Pipes)**: These are the files that are used for inter-process communication. They are used for communication between processes on the same host.
- `file <filename>`: To check the type of file.
- `ls -ld <filename>`: To check the type of file.
  - ls: list storage
  - Look to the first character of the output:
    - `-`: Regular file
    - `d`: Directory
    - `c`: Character device
    - `b`: Block device
    - `l`: Link
    - `s`: Socket
    - `p`: FIFO
