# Istio

## Pre-requisites knowledge

- Kubernetes cluster, sidecars ans envoy proxy.

## Monoliths vs Microservices

- Until 2000s, monoliths were the way to go, process focused and slow development.
- Agile manifesto came in 2001, and the microservices architecture started to rise.
  - Individuals and interactions over processes and tools.
  - Working software over comprehensive documentation.
  - Customer collaboration over contract negotiation.
  - Responding to change over following a plan.
- Microservices are small, independent, and loosely coupled services.
- Pros:
  - Scalability.
  - Faster, smaller, and more frequent deployments.
  - Technology and language agnostic.
  - Deployment lifecycle is independent.
  - System resilience and isolation.
  - Independent and easy to manage services.
- Cons:
  - Complex service networking.
  - Security and data consistency.
  - Monitoring and logging (Observability).
  - Overload for traditional operation models.

## Service Mesh

- Instead of having the same services in every microservice, we can have a `service mesh`. That is a proxy that handles the communication between services.
  - Examples of services: Authentication, Authorization, Logging, Monitoring, Tracing, Load Balancing, Circuit Breaking, Rate Limiting, etc.
  - A service mesh is a dedicated infrastructure layer for handling service-to-service communication without having to change the microservices code.
- `Data Plane`: The data plane is responsible for handling the actual traffic between services. The proxy itself is the data plane.
- `Control Plane`: The control plane is responsible for managing the configuration of the data plane. The control plane is responsible for configuring the data plane to route traffic, enforce policies, and collect telemetry data.
- Service mesh is responsible for:
  - Service discovery (Discovery, Health Checks, Load Balancing).
  - Traffic management (Routing, Resilience, Rate Limiting, etc).
  - Security (Authentication, Authorization, Encryption, etc).
  - Observability (Monitoring, Logging, Tracing, etc).

## Istio

- Istio is an open-source service mesh that works with Kubernetes.
- Istio provides:
  - Traffic management.
  - Security.
  - Observability.
  - Policy enforcement.
- Istio is composed of:
  - Control Plane:
    - `Istiod`: Central daemon component that manages and configures the data plane. Manage the tree main components:
    - `Galley`: Configuration validation and ingestion.
    - `Pilot`: Service discovery and traffic management.
    - `Citadel`: Security. Certificate authority for service-to-service communication.
  - Data Plane:
    - `Envoy`: Sidecar proxy that intercepts and controls all the traffic between services.
      - Sidecar is a pattern where a proxy is deployed alongside the service.
    - `Istio Agent`: A component that runs on the VMs or physical servers to manage the Envoy proxies.
