# Docker Compose

- `docker-compose.yml`: Main file.
- `docker compose up`: Start the services.
- `docker compose down`: Stop the services.

## Sample application

- Voting app (Python) > In-memory database (Redis) > Worker (.NET) > Database (Postgres) > Result app (Node.js)
- All parts are in different containers, with images pulled from Docker Hub.

### Docker Run Approach

- Run each container separately.
  - `docker run -d --name=redis redis`
  - `docker run -d --name=db postgres`
  - `docker run -d --name=vote -p 5000:80 voting-app`
  - `docker run -d --name=result -p 5001:80 result-app`
  - `docker run -d --name=worker worker`
- Error: The containers are not connected.
  - To connect them, we need to use the `--link` flag. `--link <container_name>:<alias>` < THIS IS DEPRECATED.
  - `docker run -d --name=vote --link redis:redis -p 5000:80 voting-app`
    - Behind the scenes, Docker creates an entry in the `/etc/hosts` file of the container. Entry: `redis` pointing to the IP of the `redis` container.
  - `docker run -d --name=result --link db:db -p 5001:80 result-app`

### Docker Compose Approach

```yml
version: "3"
services:
  redis:
    image: redis # Pull the image from Docker Hub. Or use a custom image: `build: ./path/to/Dockerfile`

  db:
    image: postgres:9.4
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: postgres
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: postgres

  vote:
    image: voting-app
    ports:
      - 5000:80

  result:
    image: result-app
    ports:
      - 5001:80

  worker:
    image: worker
```

## Versions

- Version 1

  - Pros:
    - Simple and easy to understand.
    - Good for small projects.
  - Cons:
    - Limited functionality.
    - Deprecated in favor of newer versions.
    - Databases need to come up first.

- Version 2

  - Pros:
    - Introduced services, networks and volumes.
    - Better for larger projects.
    - End of links, use bridge networks.
  - Cons:
    - More complex than Version 1.
    - Requires Docker Engine 1.10.0+.

- Version 3

  - Pros:
    - Improved scalability and orchestration.
    - Supports Docker Swarm mode.
  - Cons:
    - More complex than Version 2.
    - Requires Docker Engine 1.13.0+.

- Version 3.7+

  - Pros:
    - Latest features and improvements.
    - Better support for modern Docker features.
  - Cons:
    - Requires the latest Docker Engine versions.
    - Can be overkill for simple projects.
