# Static Pods

- Static Pods are managed directly by the kubelet daemon on a specific node, without the API server observing them.
- The Kubelet can manage a node as its ship. It can create, update, and delete pods on the node.
  - But how to provide a pod definition to the node without the API server?
  - The Kubelet can watch a directory on the node's filesystem (/etc/kubernetes/manifests by default) for pod definitions.
  - The Kubelet will manage the pods defined in this directory, creating, updating, and deleting them as needed. This is how static pods work.
  - This way, we can't create other resources like services, deployments, etc., for static pods.
- `--pod-manifest-path` flag can be used to specify the directory where the Kubelet should look for pod definitions on the `kubelet.service` file.
  - Another way is to use staticPodPath in an external configuration file. Use `--config=kubeconfig.yaml` to specify the configuration file.
- Kubelet can create pods:
  - From a file in the static pod directory.
  - From a HTTP endpoint, from the Kubernetes API server.
- When we `kubectl get pods`, we can see the static pods. This occurs because kubelet also creates a mirror pod in the API server. It's a read-only pod that represents the static pod on the node.
  - The name: `static-pod-<pod-name>-<node-name>`
- Use cases:
  - Since they are not dependent on the control plane, we can use static pods to bootstrap a Kubernetes control plane.
    - For example, we can use static pods to bootstrap the control plane components like the API server, controller manager, etcd, and scheduler.
    - Put the static pod definitions in the `/etc/kubernetes/manifests` directory on the control plane nodes (master nodes).
    - `kubectl get pods -n kube-system` will show the static pods running on the control plane nodes.

## Static Pods vs. DaemonSets

- Static Pods:
  - Created by the Kubelet
  - Deploy Control Plane components as static pods
  - Ignored by the Kube-Scheduler
- DaemonSets:
  - Created by the API server (DaemonSet controller)
  - Deploy monitoring agents, log collectors, etc.
  - Ignored by the Kube-Scheduler
