# Kubernetes Controllers

- Controllers are control loops that watch the state of your cluster, then make or request changes where needed.
- Each controller tries to move the current cluster state closer to the desired state.

## Replication Controllers

- It creates or deletes pods as required.
- If a pod fails, the Replication Controller replaces it.
- Ex:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ReplicationController
metadata:
  name: myapp-rc
  labels:
    app: myapp
    type: front-end
spec:
  template:
    metadata:
      name: myapp-pod
      labels:
        app: myapp
        type: front-end
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: nginx-container
          image: nginx
  replicas: 3
```

- `kubectl apply -f rc-definition.yaml`: Create the Replication Controller.
- `kubectl get replicationcontroller`: Get the Replication Controller.

### Load Balancer and Scaling

- Replication Controllers can be used to scale the number of pods up or down.
  - If the resources on the node are low, the Replication Controller will create new pods on other nodes.

## ReplicaSets

- ReplicaSets are the next-generation Replication Controller. They are similar to Replication Controllers but have more features.
- Ex:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: ReplicaSet
metadata:
  name: myapp-replicaset
  labels:
    app: myapp
    type: front-end
spec:
  template:
    metadata:
      name: myapp-pod
      labels:
        app: myapp
        type: front-end
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: nginx-container
          image: nginx
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      type: front-end
```

- `Selector`: The labels that the ReplicaSet should look for in the pods it manages. It manages all these pods, even if they were not created by the ReplicaSet.
- `kubectl create -f replicaset-definition.yaml`: Create the ReplicaSet.
- `kubectl get replicaset`: Get the ReplicaSet.
- `kubectl delete replicaset myapp-replicaset`: Delete the ReplicaSet and its pods.
- `kubectl describe replicaset myapp-replicaset`: Get more information about the ReplicaSet.
- `kubectl edit replicaset myapp-replicaset`: Edit the ReplicaSet. Doesn't update the base file.
- You can use `rs` instead of `replicaset` in the commands.

### Labels and Selectors

- Labels are key-value pairs that are attached to objects, such as pods.
- Labels are intended to be used to specify identifying attributes of objects that are meaningful and relevant to users, but do not directly imply semantics to the core system.
- Through labels, you can query and filter resources. For example, using selectors.
- `matchLabels`: The labels that the ReplicaSet should look for in the pods it manages.

### Scaling ReplicaSets

- `kubectl replace -f replicaset-definition.yaml`: Replace the ReplicaSet with a new one, containing the new number of replicas.
- Or `kubectl scale --replicas=6 -f replicaset-definition.yaml`: Scale the ReplicaSet. But this way the file doesn't need to be updated.
- Or even `kubectl scale --replicas=6 replicaset myapp-replicaset`: Scale the ReplicaSet. But this way the file doesn't need to be updated.
  - `replicaset`: The type of resource you want to scale.
  - `myapp-replicaset`: The name of the resource you want to scale.
