# Rollout and Versioning

- **Rollout** is a process of deploying a new version of an application to a Kubernetes cluster.
- **Versioning** is a process of managing different versions of an application.
- **Rollout Commands**:
  - `kubectl rollout status deployment/myapp-deployment`: Check the status of a rollout. It shows the pods that are being created and terminated.
  - `kubectl rollout history deployment/myapp-deployment`: Check the history of a rollout.
  - `kubectl rollout undo deployment/myapp-deployment`: Rollback to the previous version.
  - `kubectl rollout undo deployment/myapp-deployment --to-revision=2`: Rollback to a specific revision.
  - `kubectl set image deployment/myapp-deployment nginx=nginx:1.9.1`: Update the image of a Deployment.
    - But this command will not update the Deployment yaml file.
  - `kubectl edit deployment/myapp-deployment`: Edit the Deployment.
  - `kubectl scale deployment/myapp-deployment --replicas=3`: Scale the Deployment.
  - `kubectl delete deployment/myapp-deployment`: Delete the Deployment.
- When updating a Deployment yaml file, the `kubectl apply -f deployment-definition.yaml` command will automatically update the Deployment and create a new version of it.

## Strategy Types

- **Recreate**: when a new version of the application is deployed, all the existing Pods are terminated before creating new ones.
  - **Pros**: Simple and fast. No downtime.
  - **Cons**: Downtime during the update. Not suitable for stateful applications.
- **Ramped/Rolling update**: when a new version of the application is deployed, the new Pods are gradually created and the old Pods are terminated.
  - **Pros**: No downtime. Controlled and gradual rollout.
  - **Cons**: Slow rollout. Not suitable for stateful applications.
- **Blue/Green**: when a new version of the application is deployed, a new set of Pods with the new version is created and the traffic is switched to them.
  - **Pros**: No downtime. Easy rollback. Suitable for stateful applications.
  - **Cons**: Requires double the resources. Not suitable for stateful applications.
- **Canary**: when a new version of the application is deployed, it is introduced to a subset of users before rolling it out to everyone.
  - **Pros**: Controlled rollout. Early feedback.
  - **Cons**: Complex setup. Requires monitoring and analysis.
