# File Permissions

- **File Permissions** are the rules that determine who can read from, write to, or execute a file.
- `ls -l`: To list files with permissions. The output is in the following format:
  - `-rw-r--r-- 1 bob bob 0 Jan 1 00:00 file.txt`
  - `drwxr-xr-x 1 root root 0 Jan 1 00:00 directory`
  - First field:
    - `d`: Directory
    - `-`: File
    - `l`: Symbolic link
    - `c`: Character device
    - `b`: Block device
    - `s`: Socket file
    - `p`: Pipe
  - Next 9 fields:
    - `rwxr-xr-x`: Permissions
      - `123`: Owner
      - `456`: Group
      - `789`: Other users
      - `r`: Read - octal value 4
      - `w`: Write - octal value 2
      - `x`: Execute - octal value 1
      - `-`: No permission
  - `root root`: Owner and Group
  - `bob bob`: Owner and Group other than root
  - `0`: Number of links
  - `Jan 1 00:00`: Last modified date
  - `file.txt`: File name

## Manage File Permissions

- `chmod <permissions> file`: Change file permissions.
- Syntax:
  - `u`: User (Owner)
  - `g`: Group
  - `o`: Other
  - `a`: All
  - `+`: Add permission
  - `-`: Remove permission
  - `=`: Set permission
  - `r`: Read
  - `w`: Write
  - `x`: Execute

### Symbolic Method

- `chmod u+rwx file`: Provide full access to Owner.
- `chmod ugo+r-x file`: Provide read access to Owner, Group, and Others. Remove execute access.
- `chmod a=r file`: Set read-only permission for all.
- `chmod o-rwx file`: Remove all permissions for Others.
- `chmod u+rwx,g+rw,o+r file`: Set read, write, and execute permissions for Owner. Set read and write permissions for Group. Set read permission for Others.

### Octal Method

- `chmod 777 file`: Set read, write, and execute permissions for Owner, Group, and Others.
- `chmod 555 file`: Set read and execute permissions for Owner, Group, and Others.
- `chmod 660 file`: Set read and write permissions for Owner and Group. No permissions for Others.
- `chmod 721 file`: Set read, write, and execute permissions for Owner. Set read permissions for Group. Set execute permissions for Others.

## Manage File Ownership

- `chown owner:group file`: Change the owner and group of a file.
- `chown bob:developer file`: Change the owner to `bob` and group to `developer`.
- `chown bob file`: Change the owner to `bob`.
- `chgrp group file`: Change the group of a file.
  - `-R`: Recursive. Change the group of all files in a directory.
