# IP Tables

- Remembering: to connect to another server we must have:
  - Username and password
  - SSH keys
  - IP address/port (22)
- On production world, there are too many servers, so we need to manage the access to them.
- We can use IP tables to manage the access to the servers. And setting firewall rules to allow or deny access to the servers.
- On Centos, the IP tables come pre-installed. In Ubuntu, we need to install it: `sudo apt install iptables`.
- `sudo iptables -L`: List the current rules. 3 rules are created by default (accept all traffic):
  - Chain INPUT (incoming traffic): clients trying to connect to the server.
  - Chain FORWARD (traffic that is not destined to the server): traffic that is not destined to the server.
  - Chain OUTPUT (outgoing traffic): server trying to connect to the clients.
- We can define conditions to allow or deny traffic. Ex: Accept all traffic from a specific IP address. Or deny all traffic from a specific IP address.

- `iptables -A INPUT -p tcp -s IP --dport 22 -j ACCEPT`: Allow all incoming traffic on port 22 from the specified IP address.
  - `-A`: Append a rule.
  - `INPUT`: Chain.
  - `-s IP`: Source IP address.
  - `-p tcp`: Protocol.
  - `--dport 22`: Destination port.
  - `-j ACCEPT`: Action.
- `iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 22 -j DROP`: Drop all incoming traffic on port 22.
- The rules are applied in order. So, the first rule that matches the condition will be applied. On the previous example, the first rule will allow the traffic from the specified IP address. The second rule will drop all the traffic on port 22.

- Other examples:

  - `iptables -A OUTPUT -p tcp -d IP --dport 5432 -j ACCEPT`: Allow all outgoing traffic on port 5432 to the specified IP address (PostgreSQL).
  - `iptables -A OUTPUT -p tcp -d IP --dport 80 -j ACCEPT`: Allow all outgoing traffic on port 80 to the specified IP address (HTTP).
  - `iptables -A OUTPUT -p tcp --dport 80 -j DROP`: Drop all outgoing traffic on port 80.
  - `iptables -A OUTPUT -p tcp --dport 443 -j DROP`: Drop all outgoing traffic on port 443.
  - `iptables -A INPUT -p tcp -s IP --dport 80 -j ACCEPT`: Allow all incoming traffic on port 80 from the specified IP address.

- To insert a rule on the top of the chain: `iptables -I INPUT 1 -p tcp -s IP --dport 22 -j ACCEPT`.

  - `-I`: Insert a rule.
  - `1`: Position.

- To delete a rule: `iptables -D INPUT 1`.

  - `-D`: Delete a rule.
  - `1`: Position.

- Ephemeral port range: 32768-60999. Used by the client to connect to the server.
