# Docker Engine

- `Docker Engine` is a client-server application with these major components:
  - A server which is a type of long-running program called `Docker daemon` process (dockerd). It manages Docker objects such as images, containers, networks, and volumes.
  - A `REST API` which specifies interfaces that programs can use to talk to the daemon and instruct it what to do.
  - A command line interface (`Docker CLI`). Used by users to interact with Docker daemon.
    - We can you it on other hosts to interact with the Docker daemon on a remote host. Ex: `docker -H=remote-docker-host:2375 run nginx`
    - Port 2375 is the default port for Docker daemon to listen for incoming API requests.

## Containerization

- Docker uses `namaspace` and `cgroups` to isolate containers from each other and from the host system.
- `Namespace` is a Linux kernel feature that isolates containers from each other.
  - Docker uses multiple namespaces such as `pid`, `net`, `ipc`, `mnt`, `uts`.
    - `pid`: Process isolation
    - `net`: Managing network interfaces
    - `ipc`: Managing access to IPC (Inter-Process Communication) resources
    - `mnt`: Managing filesystem mount points
    - `uts`: Unix Timesharing System (hostname)

### Namespace - pid

- `pid` namespace isolates the process ID number space. Each container has its own set of processes and process IDs.
  - It's unique.
- When creating a container, it needs to think that there is no other process running on the host system. But, on reality, there are other processes running on the host system. Ex: pid 1 on the container is pid 6 on the host system.
- The `pid` namespace isolates the process ID number space, meaning that a process in a container cannot see or signal processes in another container or on the host system.

## cgroups

- `cgroups` (control groups) is a Linux kernel feature that limits, accounts for, and isolates the resource usage (CPU, memory, disk I/O, network, etc.) of a collection of processes.
- Docker uses cgroups to limit the amount of resources that a container can use.
- `docker run --cpus=0.5 --memory=512m nginx`
  - `--cpus=0.5`: Limits the container to use 50% of the CPU.
  - `--memory=512m`: Limits the container to use 512MB of memory.
