# Docker storage

- Docker storage is the place where Docker images and containers are stored.
- Docker storage is divided into two types:
  - Storage drivers
  - Storage volumes
- File system:

```bash
/var/lib/docker
|-- aufs
|-- containers
|-- image
|-- volumes
  |-- data_volume
|-- network
```

- Layered architecture: Docker reuses the layers of images to create new images.
  - On `docker build`, some read-only layers are created for the image.
  - On `docker run`, a new read-write layer is created on top of the read-only layers. When the container is deleted, the read-write layer is also deleted.
- `Copy-on-write` (CoW): When a container writes to a file, it copies the file from the read-only layer to the read-write layer. This is called `copy-on-write`.

## Volumes

- Volumes are used to persist data generated by and used by Docker containers.
  - After the container is deleted, the data is still available.
- `docker volume create my-vol` > `docker run -v my-vol:/var/lib/mysql mysql`
  - We can also mount a host directory to a container. Ex: `docker run -v /host-dir:/container-dir nginx`
- So, we have two types of mouting:
  - `Bind mounting`: Mounts a host directory to a container.
  - `Volume mounting`: Docker manages the volume.
- Volumes are stored in `/var/lib/docker/volumes/`.
- We can use --mount flag to mount a volume in a more verbose way. Ex: `docker run --mount type=bind,source=/host-dir,target=/container-dir nginx`

## Storage drivers

- Storage drivers are responsible for managing the contents of the image layers and the writable container layer. And also, managing volumes.
- The choice of storage driver depends on the operating system and the filesystem.
- They are:
  - `aufs`: Advanced multi-layered unification filesystem.
  - `overlay`: Overlay filesystem using a single layer.
  - `overlay2`: Overlay filesystem using multiple layers.
  - `btrfs`: B-tree filesystem.
  - `zfs`: Z File System.
  - `devicemapper`: Device mapper.
