# Shell Script

- `.sh` extension is used for shell script files.
  - To execute: `bash filename.sh` or `./filename.sh`
- Add the PATH to execute as a command: `export PATH=$PATH:/path/to/file`
  - Then you can execute the file as a command: `filename`
- To make a file executable: `chmod +x filename.sh`
  - Then, running `ls -l` will show `x` in the file permissions.

## Best Practices

- Use names that are descriptive.
- Mantain the .sh if you don't want to call the script as a command.

## Variables

- Variables are defined by `variable_name=value`.
  - To access the value of a variable, use `$variable_name`.
- It can only contain alphanumeric characters and underscores. Also, it is case sensitive.
- You can save the output of a variable and use it later: `variable_name=$(command $another_variable)`
- It's a good practice to use only lowercase letters and underscores for variable names.

## Command Line Arguments

- `$number` is used to access the arguments passed to the script.
  - `$0` is the name of the script.
  - `$#` is the number of arguments passed to the script.
- You can use `$#` on all places where you want to have the argument on the script.
- Ex:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
my_variable1=$1
my_variable2=$2

echo "The name of the script is $0"
echo "The number of arguments is $#"

echo "The first argument is $1"
echo "The second argument is $2"
```

## Read Inputs

- To read inputs from the user, use the `read` command.
  - Ex:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
read -p "Enter your name: " name
echo "Hello $name"
```

## Arithmetic Operations

- Use `expr` to perform arithmetic operations.
  - Ex: `expr 2 + 2` > 4. With `expr 2 \* 2` you can multiply. (In this case, you need to escape the `*`)
- You can assign the values to variables: `A = 6` and `B = 3` and then use `expr $A + $B`.
- You can use double parentheses to store the result in a variable: `result=$((A + B))`. Or show it: `echo $((A + B))`.
  - Inside the double parentheses, you don't need to use the `$` to access the variable. Also, no need to scape the `*`.
- You can use increment and decrement operators: `((A++))` or `((A--))`.
- Both `expr` and double parentheses doesn't support floating point numbers. So we can use `bc`.
  - Ex: `echo "scale=2; 10 / 3" | bc` > 3.33
