# GKE

- Pre-requisites:
  - Google Cloud Platform account.
  - Google Cloud SDK installed.
  - Google Cloud Console access.
- Free tier: $300 credit for 12 months.
- Compute Section -> Kubernetes Engine -> Create Cluster.
  - Name: `example-voting-app`
  - Zone: `us-central1-a`
  - Master version (version of Kubernetes): `1.15.12-gke.2` (static version)
  - Rest: default.
  - Create.
- After created, click on `Connect`.
  - Copy the command and run it in cloud shell.
    - Example: `gcloud container clusters get-credentials example-voting-app --zone us-central1-a --project <project-id>`.
  - `kubectl get nodes`.
- Clone the example-voting-app repo.
  - `git clone <repo>`.
- Change the type of service from `NodePort` to `LoadBalancer` in `voting-app-service.yaml` and `result-app-service.yaml`.
  - This is beacause the GKE has a built-in load balancer.
- Apply the artifacts:
  - `kubectl apply -f voting-app-deployment.yaml`.
  - `kubectl apply -f voting-app-service.yaml`.
  - `kubectl apply -f redis-deployment.yaml`.
  - `kubectl apply -f redis-service.yaml`.
  - `kubectl apply -f postgres-deployment.yaml`.
  - `kubectl apply -f postgres-service.yaml`.
  - `kubectl apply -f worker-app-deployment.yaml`.
  - `kubectl apply -f result-app-deployment.yaml`.
  - `kubectl apply -f result-app-service.yaml`.
- Alternatively, you can apply all the artifacts at once:
  - `kubectl apply -f .`
- Check the environment:
  - `kubectl get all`.
- On Services & Ingress, you can see the external IP of the services. Clicking on the resource, you can see the details.
  - Check the status of the services.
  - Open the external IP in the browser.
