# Node Selectors

- **Node selectors** are used to constrain the set of nodes that a pod is eligible to be scheduled on.
  - They are used to select nodes based on their labels.
- They are specified as fields in the pod spec.
  ```yaml
  spec:
    containers:
      - name: my-container
        image: my-image
    nodeSelector:
      disktype: ssd # Refer a label on the node
  ```
  This pod will only be scheduled on nodes with the label `disktype=ssd`.
- To label a node: `kubectl label nodes <node-name> <label-key>=<label-value>`.
- Limitations:
  - It's not possible to specify multiple node selectors or make complex logical expressions.

# Node Affinity

- **Node affinity** is conceptually similar to node selectors, but it allows you to specify rules that are more expressive.
  - It allows you to constrain which nodes your pod is eligible to be scheduled based on labels on nodes.

```yaml
spec:
  containers:
    - name: my-container
      image: my-image
  affinity:
    nodeAffinity:
      requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        nodeSelectorTerms:
          - matchExpressions:
              - key: disktype
                operator: In
                values:
                  - ssd
```

- This pod will only be scheduled on nodes with the label `disktype=ssd`.
- `requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution` means that the rules must be met for the pod to be scheduled.
  - If the rules are not met, the pod will not be scheduled.
- `matchExpressions` is a list of node selector requirements.
  - Each element in the list is a set of requirements that must be met.
  - The requirements are combined using a logical `AND`.
- `key` is the label key that the selector applies to.
- The `operator` field can be `In`, `NotIn`, `Exists`, `DoesNotExist`, `Gt`, `Lt`.
- `values` is a list of values that the label key must have.

## Node Affinity Types

- Base concepts:

  - `DuringScheduling`: The affinity rules are used to filter the nodes that the pod can be scheduled on.
    - Here, the pod doesn't exist yet.
  - `DuringExecution`: The affinity rules are used to filter the nodes that the pod can be evicted from.
    - Here, the pod already exists and a change has occurred impacting the affinity rules.

- Available types of node affinity:
  - `requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution`: The pod won't be scheduled if the affinity rules are not met. And during execution, the pod will not be evicted if the rules are not met.
  - `preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution`: The pod will be scheduled on a node that meets the affinity rules if possible, but it's not required. And during execution, the pod will not be evicted if the rules are not met.
- Planned for future releases:
  - `requiredDuringSchedulingRequiredDuringExecution`: The pod won't be scheduled if the affinity rules are not met, and if the rules are not met during execution the pod will be evicted.
  - `preferredDuringSchedulingRequiredDuringExecution`: The pod will be scheduled on a node that meets the affinity rules if possible, but it's not required. If the rules are not met during execution the pod will be evicted.
