# Resource requirements

- **Resource requirements** are used to specify the amount of resources that a container needs.
  - It can be: CPU, memory, GPU, etc.
  - The kube-scheduler uses this information to decide where to place the pod.
  - If there's no node with enough resources, the pod will remain in the `Pending` state.

## Resource Requests

- **Resource requests** are used to specify the amount of resources that a container needs.
  - The kube-scheduler uses this information to decide where to place the pod.
  - If there's no node with enough resources, the pod will remain in the `Pending` state.

```yaml
spec:
  containers:
    - name: my-container
      image: my-image
      resources:
        requests:
          memory: "64Mi"
          cpu: "250m"
```

## Resource CPU

- **CPU** is a resource that is measured in CPU units.
  - 1 CPU is equivalent to 1 AWS vCPU, 1 GCP Core, 1 Azure Core or 1 Hyperthread.
  - 0.1 CPU is equivalent to 100m CPU, it's the lowest value that can be set.

## Resource Memory

- **Memory** is a resource that is measured in bytes.
  - It can be expressed in bytes, kilobytes, megabytes, gigabytes, etc.
  - It can be expressed as a number or as a string.
  - If expressed as a string, it can be: `64Mi`, `64M`, `64MB`, `64MiB`.
- G is for gigabytes (10^9 bytes). Gi is for gibibytes (2^30 bytes).

## Resource Limits

- **Resource limits** are used to specify the maximum amount of resources that a container can use.
  - The kubelet monitors the resource usage and kills the container if it exceeds the limit.

```yaml
spec:
  containers:
    - name: my-container
      image: my-image
      resources:
        requests:
          memory: "64Mi"
          cpu: 1
        limits:
          memory: "128Mi"
          cpu: 2
```

## Exceeding Resource Limits

- If it occurs with CPU, the container will be throttled. It means that the CPU usage will be limited to the limit.
- If it occurs with memory, the container will be terminated and output an OOM (Out of Memory) error.

## Default Behavior

- If you don't specify resource requests and limits, the container will be able to use all the resources available on the node.
- So the container can suppress other containers and the node itself.

- Hypothesis with CPU or memory:
  1. No requests set and no limits set: One pod can consume all the resources available on the node, suppressing other pods.
  2. No requests set and limits set: In this case, requests are equal to limits. So, the pods can only consume the resources that they requested.
  3. Requests set and limits set: The problem here is that, even there's resources available on the node, the pod can't use them. Because the limits are set.
  4. Requests set and no limits set: This is the best practice. There's no unnecessary restrictions. The pod can use all the resources available on the node, however, it can't suppress other pods.

## Limit ranges

- **Limit ranges** are used to set default requests and limits for all pods in a namespace.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: LimitRange
metadata:
  name: limit-range
spec:
  limits:
    - type: Container
      default:
        memory: "64Mi"
        cpu: 250m
      defaultRequest:
        memory: "32Mi"
        cpu: 100m
      max:
        memory: "128Mi"
        cpu: 1
      min:
        memory: "4Mi"
        cpu: 100m
      maxLimitRequestRatio:
        memory: 4
        cpu: 2
```

## Resource Quotas

- **Resource quotas** are used to set limits on the amount of resources that can be used in a namespace.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ResourceQuota
metadata:
  name: resource-quota
spec:
  hard:
    requests.cpu: "1"
    requests.memory: 1Gi
    limits.cpu: "2"
    limits.memory: 2Gi
```
