# Disk Partitions

- **Block Device**: A device that can read and write data in fixed-size blocks. Examples include hard drives, SSDs, and USB drives.
  - `/dev`: Directory containing device files.
  - `lsblk`: List block devices. `ls -l /dev/ | grep "^b"` also works.
- Major and minor numbers: Used to identify block devices.

  - Major number: Identifies the driver associated with the device.
    - `1`: RAM disk.
    - `3`: Hard disk or CD-ROM.
    - `6`: Parallel printers.
    - `8`: SCSI disk.
  - Minor number: Identifies the device itself. Represents the partition number.

- Ex:

```bash
$ lsblk
NAME   MAJ:MIN RM  SIZE RO TYPE MOUNTPOINT
sda      8:0    0  120G  0 disk
├─sda1   8:1    0  100M  0 part /boot/efi # EFI system partition, used by UEFI firmware.
├─sda2   8:2    0   70G  0 part /media/MM/Data # Data partition.
└─sda3   8:3    0   50G  0 part / # Root partition.
```

- `fdisk`: Utility to manage disk partitions.
  - `fdisk -l`: List partitions.
  - `fdisk /dev/sda`: Open the partition table of `/dev/sda`.
    - `m`: Show help.
    - `p`: Print the partition table.
    - `n`: Create a new partition.
    - `d`: Delete a partition.
    - `w`: Write changes to disk and exit.

## Partition Types

- **Partition**: A logical division of a block device.
  - **Primary partition**: A partition that can be used to boot an OS. A disk can have up to 4 primary partitions.
  - **Extended partition**: A partition that can be divided into logical partitions. Not used by its own, but holds logical partitions.
  - **Logical partition**: A partition within an extended partition.
- **Partition table**: A table that contains information about the partitions on a disk.
  - **MBR (Master Boot Record)**: Legacy partition table format. Supports up to 4 primary partitions. Maximum disk size is 2TB.
  - **GPT (GUID Partition Table)**: Modern partition table format. Supports up to 128 primary partitions on a disk. Maximum disk size is 9.4 ZB.

## Creating Partitions

- `gdisk`: Utility to manage GPT partitions.

  - `gdisk /dev/sda`: Open the partition table of `/dev/sda`.
    - `n`: Create a new partition.
    - `d`: Delete a partition.
    - `w`: Write changes to disk and exit.
  - Ex: Create a new partition on `/dev/sda`:

    - `gdisk /dev/sda`
    - `n`
    - `1` (Partition number)
    - `2048` (First sector)
    - `+500M` (Last sector)
    - `8300` (Default hex code for Linux filesystem)
    - `w`
