# Cluster Architecture

- **Cluster**: A set of nodes that run K8s.
- **Node**(Minions): A machine that runs containers.
  - **Master Node**: Controls the worker nodes. It has the control plane components.
    - **kube-apiserver**: Frontend for the K8s control plane. Communicates with Kubelet on the nodes.
      - Handles all REST requests and provides the API for the cluster.
    - **kube-scheduler**: Assigns work to nodes. It's responsible for distributing work or containers across multiple nodes.
    - **Controller Manager**: Monitors the cluster. It's the brain of the cluster.
      - Responsible for making decisions to bring up new containers in response to node, container, or endpoint failures.
      - **Replication Controller**: Ensures that the desired number of pods are running at all times.
      - **Node Controller**: Monitors the health of nodes and manages node lifecycle events.
    - **etcd**: Key-value store for all cluster data. Logs, config, etc.
      - Implement locks to prevent conflicts.
      - Ensures distributed storage of information across the cluster.
  - **Worker Node**: Runs the containers.
    - **Kubelet**: Communicates with the master node. Make sure that the containers are running. It's like the captain of the ship.
      - Responsible for starting, stopping, and maintaining application containers organized in pods on each node.
    - **Kube Proxy**: Maintains network rules.
      - Handles network traffic and load balancing for services between pods.
    - **Container Runtime**: Runs the containers. Docker, containerd, etc.
