# etcd

- **etcd** is a distributed key-value store used to store all cluster data in K8s.
  - Key-value store is a type of database that uses a simple key-value pair to store data.
  - There are documents that have a key and a value. The key is used to retrieve the value.

## Operate etcd

1. Download the etcd binary from the official website.
2. Extract the binary and move it to a directory in your PATH.
3. Start etcd with the following command:

```bash
etcd --name <name> --data-dir <data-dir> --listen-client-urls <url> --advertise-client-urls <url>
```

- On v2.0:
- `etcdctl` shows the possible commands to use with etcd.
- `etcdctl set <key> <value>`: Set a key-value pair in etcd.
- `etcdctl get <key>`: Get the value of a key from etcd.

## etc versions

- etcd v0.1 - 8/2013
- etcd v0.5 - 12/2014
- etcd v2.0 - 2/2015 - First stable release.
- etcd v3.1 - 1/2017 - Optimization for performance and stability. etcdctl changed.
- CNCF incubated in 11/2018

- `etcdctl --version`: Check the version of etcdctl on v2, version as an option.
- `etcdctl version`: Check the version of etcdctl on v3, version as a command.
- `ETCDCTL_API=3 etcdctl version`: Check the version of etcdctl with API v3.

  - Or `export ETCDCTL_API=3` to set the API version to 3.

- On v3.0:
- `etcdctl put <key> <value>`: Set a key-value pair in etcd.
- `etcdctl get <key>`: Get the value of a key from etcd.

# etcd on K8s

- Stores:
  - Cluster state: Nodes, pods, services, etc.
  - Configurations: ConfigMaps, Secrets, Accounts, Roles, Bindings, etc.
  - Metadata: Labels, annotations, etc.

## Setup forms

1. Manual:
   - Download the etcd binary from the official website to your cluster.
   - Extract the binary and move it to a directory in your PATH.
   - Start etcd service. On the `etcd.service` file:
     - `--advertise-client-urls https://${INTERNAL_IP}:2379`: The URL that etcd server will listen on for incoming requests.
2. Using kubeadm:
   - It runs etcd as a static pod: `etcd-master`.
   - Use etcdctl inside this pod to interact with etcd.
   - To se all the keys stored: `kubectl exec etcd-master -n kube-system etcdctl get / --prefix --keys-only`.

- On High Availability environments we have multiple master nodes.
  - Each master node has its own etcd instance.
  - They are configured to replicate data between them.
  - This ensures that the cluster can continue to function even if one of the master nodes fails.
  - Configure etcd.service file:
    - `--initial-cluster controller-0=https://{CONTROLLER_0_IP}:2380,controller-1=https://{CONTROLLER_1_IP}:2380`: this way we can have multiple etcd instances.
