# Services

- Services are used to expose the application running inside the pods to the outside world.
  - Also used to communicate between different pods/nodes.
- The service listen to a specific port and forward the request to the port of the pod.
  - Ex: listens to the 30008 port and forwards the request to the 5000 port of the pod with a Flask application.
  - So the host will get the response by using `curl http://<node-ip>:30008` < "Hello, World!".

## Service Types

- **NodePort**: Exposes the service on each Node's IP at a static port. The service is accessible from outside the cluster using `<NodeIP>:<NodePort>`.
- **ClusterIP**: Exposes the service on a cluster-internal IP. The service is only reachable from within the cluster. This is the default service type.
- **LoadBalancer**: Exposes the service externally using a cloud provider's load balancer.

# NodePort

- Ports:
  - `TargetPort`: the port of the pod to be accessed. <pod-IP>:<port>.
  - `Port`: the port of the service to access the pod. <service-IP>:<port>.
  - `NodePort`: the port of the node to access the service. Range: 30000-32767. <node-IP>:<node-port>.
- There is a ClusterIP service that's created automatically when created a Minikube cluster.
- Definition:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: myapp-service # Name of the service.
spec:
  type: NodePort # Service type.
  ports:
    - targetPort: 80
      port: 80
      nodePort: 30008
  selector:
    app: myapp # Label of the pod to be accessed.
    type: front-end # Label of the pod to be accessed.
```

- `kubectl apply -f service-definition.yaml`: Create the Service.
- `kubectl get services`: Get the Service.
- To access the service, use `curl http://<node-ip>:30008`.
- When we have multiple pods, the service will load balance the requests between them automatically.
  - Algorithm: Random.
  - SessionAffinity (The same client will always be redirected to the same pod): Yes.
- When we have multiple nodes, without changes on its creation, the service will be available on all nodes.

  - Ex: `curl http://<node1-ip>:30008` or `curl http://<node2-ip>:30008`.

- If using MiniKube, `minikube service myapp-service --url` will return the URL to access the service.
